and hello everyone welcome to another
vlog today I'm back in Cambridge as you
can see I arrived and moved in yesterday
but it's now very early this morning and
I'm off on rowing camp which is very
exciting and it's in Spain for a week in
a place called mekin ends up which is
like about a two-hour drive outside of
Barcelona there's a big river there I
thought it's gonna be hot because Spain
you know and then it turns out it's
actually gonna be very cold this time of
year that's still it's gonna be a great
week I'm going to improve my Coxon
skills because if you didn't know I cook
so I don't do any of the exercise I
don't actually row I sit at the front of
the boat and then I shout the rowers
steer the boat anyway it's gonna be a
really really fun week we're flying out
to Barcelona we're getting a taxi to a
station so I'm just about to head down
and meet the group that I'm getting a
taxi with in like 10 minutes time so in
a ways off in a moment and yeah it
should be really fun I'm really excited
we got a plane from London Stansted
Airport to Barcelona it was quite a
short plane journey only just over two
hours I had a great time though I had
some food on the plane none of the group
was sitting together because you have to
pay extra for tickets to sit together
and let's face it with students we're
not wasting money
the journey continued by coach from
Barcelona to mekin Enza I spent most of
the coach journey catching up on sleep I
was very tired
okay so I've arrived in Spain it's
actually very very cold and I'm
regretting not packing many layers but
there you go I'm here now I'll make do
of what I've got the room is actually
quite pleasant there was a bit of an
issue with electricity but it's fine
it's all on now we have light yeah I'm
excited for the week should be good we
had meals made for us in a restaurant
next to the hostel every day the food
was basic and very carb heavy but there
was plenty of it good morning everyone
I'm ready to go out for the first outing
of the week it's just a short one it's
very cold outside I've checked the
weather and it's actually warmer in
Cambridge right now than it is out here
so that's fun but I've got my thermal
layers on so should be good here you can
see well we boated from each day one of
the boats is out on trestles
all the blades are out there were two
pontoons where we pushed off from and
here is me cook Singh the woman's crew
of eight on the first day the setting
was honestly spectacular the river was
massive and we had the whole expanse to
ourselves it was actually a reservoir
built from a man-made dam in 1965 I had
to be careful to steer away from
submerged trees which had been flooded
previously because collision with a tree
would not have been ideal for the boat
this video footage was taken from a
launch which is a motorized boat which
the coach drove the coach would go
alongside us and shout at us through a
megaphone each session
[Music]
hello so it's now the afternoon the
mornings been really good
we've already had two outings this
morning the first one was just static
stuff so well you're not rowing anywhere
but the rowers all do drills and then
the second one was more technical outing
and then the third outing this afternoon
is going to be a more work based outing
so we'll do some race pieces
it's the session where the rowers will
be working the hardest and hopefully
applying the technical stuff we've been
doing earlier in the day I've currently
got my cock's box on charge in the
bathroom
because this needs changing up this is
what I use to amplify my voice over the
boat it's also quite a fancy new one so
that's exciting it also gives the rate
the rowers are rowing at and you can
also get the speed at the boat on the
Cox book so they're quite useful really
meanwhile we've actually got a bit of a
break to our next outing lunch is over
and it's only just past two and the
third and final outing of the day isn't
until 3:30 so I whipped out some of my
physics work because I've got quite a
bit to do still before term starts and
by the time I get back from rowing camp
next week it's not long before lecture
starts so we'll be good with most of it
can be done by the end of this week so
it's good that I've got some time I'm
just working in the room in my room here
I'm sharing with one other person
the only other workplace is in the
restaurant where we eat in the evenings
and there's quite a lot of people down
there so a bit noisy I know probably
wouldn't concentrate and I'd get
distracted if I go down but everyone
else is in the restaurant so I'm just
staying up here to do some work
hopefully I'll have a nice time on the
outing this afternoon and this evening
I'm feeling very well-rested today just
because I went to bed early last night
so I'm really pleased I did that but it
is however freezing I came up back to
the room to take a layer off because I
was thinking it's hot the Sun has come
out today which is great and I have been
wearing my sunglasses as well rocking
them but I've come back up to the room
and the room is freezing like we've only
got a mini heater let me show you
yeah it's our heater it's not that great
heating up the room it the room gets a
little bit cold so I'm staying in my
fleece but it's okay I didn't come for a
glamorous holiday did I it's kind of
roughing it but having fun so I've just
realized the heater was on aircon mode
which is why it has been so cold in here
I was saying here doing my work thinking
why is it so cold I was trying to move
the fan closer to me are still feeling
freezing then I started to inspect it
and was like it is in fact blowing out
to cold air rather than hot air and then
I realized it was on the wrong setting
so it's all okay now I've now got warm
air blowing at me and I'm warming up
slowly and still doing my work it's very
fun for a couple of the morning sessions
it was extremely foggy like you couldn't
see the other side of the reservoir I
had fears of my boat drifting out off
into the middle of the water and then
not being able to find my way back
scary times scary all the Romans doing
their dynamic warm-up which they did
before every session luckily it got
sunny and the mist went away later in
the day
notice that the rowing blades are red
and black the Jesus colors every College
in Cambridge has their own blade colors
the rowing continued throughout the week
with full cruise going out each day in
total there were 12 men side rowers 12
women side rowers four quarters and four
coaches on the camp so we were all mixed
around throughout the week each day had
a different technical focus and we
concentrated on different parts of the
rowing stroke for example one day was
spent focusing on power application and
the drive phase of the stroke while
another day was spent on how you place
your blade and connect with the water
often we do exercises such as only
rowing with one arm or even suspension
drills where the rowers have to lift
themselves off their seat by hanging off
their handlebar it may all sound rather
confusing but you pick it up really
quickly most of the people on this
rowing camp had
only started roaming all Seng when
they arrived at Cambridge
[Music]
on Wednesday we had the afternoon off
and got to visit a nearby city called
Zaragoza it was nice to have a bit of a
wander around and we went to visit one
of the cathedrals as well it was however
very blurry and windy that day it was
really really cold although it looks
sunny in these videos it just really
wasn't peak season to be in the city it
turns out it's quite quiet in Zaragoza
at this time of year but nevertheless it
was really nice to visit someone new and
take it off my list of places to visit
the most exciting part of the trip was
the meal we had in the evening there was
pizza chocolate fondue actual vegetables
it was amazing after a week of basic
food at the hostel on Thursday morning
in the school session our coach made us
do the most terrifying challenge ever
all the rowers had to stand up placing
one foot on top of the blade handle and
it was a balanced exercise so the idea
was to try and keep the boat balanced
and avoid capsizing and anyone falling
in miraculously we just about managed it
but can I just assure you it was so
unsteady I won the coach gestured for me
the cook to stand up as well I was like
oh my god but at least we got the photo
that's pretty cool right here's a group
photo of all the rowers cox's and
coaches on one of the pontoons
evening everyone so this afternoon has
been interesting we're nearing the end
of the week now had lovely time in
Zaragoza yesterday afternoon that was a
really good afternoon off had a nice
meal out but anyway this afternoon I was
cooking the woman's eight crew so it
wasn't boat of eight and as we were
getting the boat out for the last few
days they've been trying this thing
where they all step into the boat at
once and push off with their other foot
so like it's like a simultaneous step
into the boat and push off and it's it's
really cool and when it works in that
was cool and all the actual professional
crews do it instead of like just holding
the boat and getting in one by one bar
it all messed up today and two of the
crew members fell in one fell on their
rigger and like broke part of the boat
essentially and another person managed
to slam their hand down and injure their
hand and anyway the water is freezing
cold so the two who were soaked had to
go get a change of care and obviously
freezing anyway we started rowing and
thought the broken pots but will prove
to be okay and it'd be okay to throw one
it wasn't too serious
later on we suddenly realized that it
was like ripping the boat essentially so
there's a big know how to explain it
like the back bit of the boat has like
split into it's such a disaster the
boatman and head coach isn't too happy
with us he might be doing a quick fix
today because we do have one more day of
rowing left tomorrow but it depends I
don't know what I'll be doing tomorrow
now because I think it seems only fair
since I was one of the eight of us no
one of the nine people I feel like we're
all to blame because we should we
shouldn't have attempted this high-level
push off we should have just left it and
it was a mistake I will take partial
blame for that it's only really fair
that I'm the one who doesn't get two
cooks tomorrow it depends like the boat
managed to have a temporary fix or not
so we'll see last early morning tomorrow
I'm getting up at like 6:30 you today
because breakfast is at 7:00 and then
our first session is at 8:00 but now it
has been a good week it's just been a
bit of a disastrous afternoon on Friday
sure enough I wasn't cutting
that day because we had two rowers
injured and so we didn't have enough
people to make up for boats however I
saw it as the perfect opportunity to get
some more vlog footage so here we have
the dynamic warm-up that the rowers have
done many many times by this point in
the week here is everyone getting the
blades and boats out at the start of the
day for the first session as the Sun
rises the first session of the day is a
static session so the rowers all do
balance drills and don't actually row
anywhere the boat just stays still on
the water here you can see the men's
boat of eight doing some roll ups see
them take three taps and then rock their
bodies over together cut their blades in
it's a test of balance timing and
control the smallest movements can throw
the whole boat off here you can see the
gym on the right and the boathouse on
the Left where we kept our boats
overnight the cat Prix Club lets us use
their facilities whilst we are in
recommenda here is the inside of the gym
where we typically went for debrief and
stretching after outings then after the
first session of the day it comes the
most important part of the day the
coffee break we all went and asked for a
cafe con leche at the restaurant every
day at about 9:30 we then had about an
hour until the next session of the day
but on this particular occasion I wasn't
going to the training session I'll
explain more so hello everyone I am
sitting in the restaurant by myself at
the moment doing some work because I've
got the day off today so yesterday
obviously we had the disaster with the
boat we've got two brothers injured now
the boat has been fixed for the time
being but obviously we can't get four
boats out at the moment so I've not got
a boat to course which is actually quite
good because
why or what to do so today I'm just
sitting in the restaurant here it is
just me tonight we've got a party so
that would be good and have my work done
before that will be good at lunchtime it
was Tara's birthday so the people in the
restaurant kindly organized a cake for
her and we all sang happy birthday
[Music]
[Applause]
so I'm just about to head down for the
last afternoon there's a big race
between the men's side and women's side
I'm going to be in the launch cheering
on women's side I can't wait it's all
very exciting the sun's out I'm going in
the launch for the first time so that's
quite exciting
I've lost the gloves I'm going to go
search for that and then we're debugging
the boats and preparing to go home
[Music]
I must say guys there was a lot more
space on the launch than in the Coxes
seat a much more sophisticated way of
travel here are the crews rowing up to
the start line of the race everyone was
feeling a very competitive
[Music]
yeah yeah and shortly after the men's
crew was started behind the women's crew
obviously the men's crew goes faster
than the women's crew so they needed a
slight handicap to make things fat as
they got further into the distance you
can see the men's crew starting to catch
up with the women's crew to be honest
it's a little bit up in the air as to
who won the three launches follows
behind so as not to churn up water and
you can still see the boat of poor
pushing on there as well then we got
back and it was time for everyone to D
rig the boats and put them all on the
trailer dinner on the final night was
the same as usual
but we all had a drink as well to
celebrate the end of the week then it
was time for awards to be given out for
achievement as people had made over the
week
[Applause]
[Music]
and yes you did here right I got an
award the best parking cuz yes I'm a
professional boat Parker get me
veneering us
[Music]
I believe that fines are coming to an
end
[Music]
okay
[Applause]
legally receive any hereby directed and
basically you treat them if you get a
find
[Music]
this is called lawyering where everyone
sits in a line and rows on the floor is
a lot of fun the restaurant staff moved
the tables to the side so as to have a
bit of a dance floor for the final night
party
[Applause]
[Music]
we left the restaurant to go to a pub
down the road where the party continued
[Music]
we're heading back to the hostel it's
the end of the night this is that time
because camp is coming to announce we
have got a flight home to work there's
no key apparently oh we have a key and
okay good night everyone hello everyone
so as you can see I'm back in my room in
Cambridge I am home I got the plane back
with the rest of the club today it's
good to be back it's good to be home
it's those home comforts you know but I
have had such a good week as well and
I'm so sad it's over
honestly it cook sitting on that large
expanse of water the views were amazing
and it's gonna be hard having to go back
to the river cam now and having to deal
with the Navajo River and having to turn
around all the bends
you just didn't need to have to worry
about that one you were out in this big
reservoir starting Kok Singh was
honestly such a good idea and I'm so
pleased I took it up at the start of my
first year at uni because look at me now
a year later and I'm going off to Spain
with the boat club and Kok Singh out
there and I've got races coming up this
term so yeah I think I'm going to sign
off here I hope you've enjoyed the video
and you can see that Kok Singh is so
much fun rowing is so much fun and going
on boat club camp to Spain is a lot of
fun go get ready for term to start now
wish me luck got a few days and it's all
go again and we're straight into a new
term so just got to make sure I've got
everything tied up from last term but
firstly I'm gonna go to bed because oh
my god the party last night I got four
hours sleep last night in the end before
hours sleep and it is not enough I have
literally been half asleep all day it
was a good party so thanks for watching
give a like if you enjoyed please do
subscribe and hit the notification bell
so you know when I upload follow me on
instagram that is the most important
thing because I'm liking the Instagram
at the moment I really am I'm loving it
yeah that's everything see you soon bye
[Music]